[docs] model testing (#45152)
huggingface/transformers: docs/source/en/pr_checks.md

Reviewer: I feel like we are missing a TOC or similar with some short quick intros what they actually refer to
- What you should do as contributor / how can you fix the CI
- Internals
  - Each check
  - Utilities for each of those, for exampel make style for if only the code quality is failing

-->

# Pull request checks

> When you open a pull request, CircleCI runs several checks that must pass before your PR can be merged. This page explains each check and how to pass it locally before pushing.

Reviewer 2: I wouldn't mention `CircieCI` specifically in the doc

> When you open a pull request, the Hugging Face CI runs several checks that must pass before your PR can be merged. This page explains each check and how to pass it locally before pushing.

Reviewer: Maybe something to note is that oftentimes (unintentionally), we have flaky tests where users should not be too focused on the CI at times. Not sure if there is a section about this later, just going top to bottom :)

> Before you push, run these three commands in order:

Reviewer: Those commands are heavy, I would mention that oftentimes the code quality ones can be enough without running through all checks

```bash
make fix-repo   # auto-fix everything that can be auto-fixed
make typing     # check types and model structure, fix any errors manually
make check-repo # verify all checks pass, fix anything that remains
```

`make fix-repo` handles most issues automatically (style, copies, docstrings, auto-generated files). `make typing` catches type errors and model structure violations that require manual fixes. `make check-repo` does a final read-only pass over everything so you can confirm nothing is left.

> ## Code quality

Reviewer: Should we have a small intro that gives an intro what these subsections are, i.e. referencing the explicit names of our repo checks

> The `ci/circleci: check_code_quality` check covers formatting, imports, type checking, and model structure rules. It corresponds to `make fix-repo` and `make typing`.

Reviewer 2: same remark for circleci

`make style` (included in `make fix-repo`) auto-fixes [Ruff](https://docs.astral.sh/ruff/) linting and formatting, `__init__.py` import sort order, and auto-mapping consistency.

> `make typing` performs type checking with [ty](https://docs.astral.sh/ty/) and validates model structure rules, which cover config class naming conventions and `forward()` signatures. Type errors and TRF violations are reported with specific rule numbers and must be fixed manually.

Reviewer 2: maybe we could add a sentence about the `mlinter` command that we can use to display info about the rules.

> `make typing` performs type checking with [ty](https://docs.astral.sh/ty/) and validates model structure rules, which cover config class naming conventions and `forward()` signatures. Type errors and TRF violations are reported with specific rule numbers and must be fixed manually. Use `mlinter --list-rules` to see all available TRF rules and `mlinter --rule TRFXXX` to view the full documentation for a specific rule.

Reviewer: I would link to the new mlinter repo here as well for the TRF rules etc. Just to avoid too many abbreviations I would do once technical rule framework (TRF)? cc @tarekziade if thats correct

Reviewer 2: `TRF` stands for `TRansFormers`

> `make typing` performs type checking with [ty](https://docs.astral.sh/ty/) and validates model structure rules, which cover config class naming conventions and `forward()` signatures. Type errors and TRF violations are reported with specific rule numbers and must be fixed manually. Use `python -m utils.mlinter --list-rules` to see all available TRF rules and `python -m utils.mlinter --rule TRFXXX` to view the full documentation for a specific rule.

Reviewer 2: nit: mlinter has been split out so it's not in utils/ anymore

## Repository consistency

> The `ci/circleci: check_repository_consistency` check ensures the repository stays internally consistent across five categories. For new models, it also verifies that all new model classes are registered in the auto-mappings.

Reviewer 2: Maybe we can avoid adding in the documentation low=level details about the server-side CI flow because I suspect it might change a lot soon. 

I would say here that this check is similar to `check-repo`, execpt that it will stop on first failure.

| Category | What it validates | Auto-fixed? |
|---|---|---|
| Init files | Every new public object must appear in both `_import_structure` (lazy loading) and the `if TYPE_CHECKING` block (type checker imports) in `__init__.py` | Manual |
| Copies and modular | `# Copied from` blocks match their source and modular-generated files are up to date | `make fix-repo` |
| Docstrings and docs | Argument docstrings match function signatures and documentation table of contents | `make fix-repo` |
| Auto-generated files | Dummies, pipeline typing, doctest list, metadata, dependency table | `make fix-repo` |
| Config validation | Config classes have valid checkpoints in docstrings and config attributes match modeling file | Manual |

## Tests

> CircleCI runs a targeted subset of tests based on what your PR changes. The sections below explain how test selection works, which jobs run, and how to handle slow tests.

Reviewer 2: Our CI..

### Test selection

> CI doesn't run the full test suite on every PR. `utils/tests_fetcher.py` traces import dependencies from your changed files to identify affected tests and only runs those. It also catches regressions in other models if you touched shared utilities. The fetcher prints which files changed, which tests are impacted, and writes the list to `tests_torch_test_list.txt`.

Reviewer: I think we should mention/reference the slow tests here already as well

Use the fetcher to replicate exactly what CI runs.

```bash
python utils/tests_fetcher.py
python -m pytest -n 8 --dist=loadfile -rA -s $(cat test_preparation/tests_torch_test_list.txt)
```

> [!TIP]
> Changing core files like `modeling_utils.py` or `generation/utils.py` triggers all model tests, not just the affected subset.

You could also run every test for your model unconditionally. This is a faster local sanity check, but it won't catch regressions in other models caused by shared code you touched.

```bash
pytest tests/models/my_model/ -v
```

### Test job categories

Tests are distributed across parallel CI jobs. Your `test_modeling_my_model.py` is detected by its path pattern. The relevant jobs for a model PR are:

- `tests_torch` — modeling tests (`tests/models/*/test_modeling_*.py`)
- `tests_tokenization` — tokenizer tests (`tests/models/*/test_tokenization_*.py`)

> - `tests_processors` — processor and feature extractor tests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `tests_processors` — processor and feature extractor tests (`tests/models/*/test_(processing|image_processing|feature_extractor)_*.py`)
```
should be double checked but should be roughly the pattern

- `tests_generate` — generation tests
- `pipelines_torch` — pipeline tests
- `tests_training_ci` — training loop tests
- `tests_tensor_parallel_ci` — tensor parallel tests

### Slow tests

> Tests decorated with `@slow` are skipped in regular CI runs. They require a real checkpoint download or significant compute, so they run on GPU instances and are triggered by maintainers once your PR is under review.

Reviewer: I would make it clear that we use a specific GPU (A10) so results can be slightly different between our CI and contributor ones. Maintainers usually make sure to adjust values on those tests if needed, e.g. when adding a model

Run slow tests locally with the command below.

```bash
RUN_SLOW=1 python -m pytest tests/models/my_model/ -v
```

## Documentation build

A `build_pr_documentation` job builds and generates a preview of the documentation. A bot posts a preview link in your PR, and the check must pass before merging. Most failures are a missing entry in the `toctree`. To build the documentation locally, see the [`README.md`](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/tree/main/docs) in the docs folder.

## `# Copied from` syntax

> [!TIP]

> > For new models, the [modular workflow](modular_transformers) (`modular_*.py`) is preferred over `# Copied from`. Use `# Copied from` when the modular approach doesn't apply.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> For new models, the [modular workflow](modular_transformers) (`modular_*.py`) is preferred over `# Copied from`. Please avoid using `# Copied from` when possible.
```
Imo, we should not advise for any copied from - maybe could be even stronger wording. If we use copied from, we advise so but doesnt happen often

```

For failures in repository consistency, copies, or auto-generated files, run `make fix-repo`. It fixes style, copies, docstrings, and auto-generated files in one pass.

```bash
make fix-repo
```

For a larger change, the three-command sequence below covers every check. It is heavier, but catches everything before you push.

```bash
make fix-repo   # auto-fix everything that can be auto-fixed
make typing     # check types and model structure, fix any errors manually
make check-repo # verify all checks pass, fix anything that remains
```

`make typing` catches type errors and model structure violations that you fix manually. `make check-repo` does a final read-only pass so you can confirm everything is ready.

> [!NOTE]
> The CI is occasionally flaky. If a check fails on something unrelated to your change, ping a maintainer to re-run it.

## Code quality

The code quality check covers formatting, imports, type checking, and model structure rules. It corresponds to `make fix-repo` and `make typing`.

`make style` (included in `make fix-repo`) auto-fixes [Ruff](https://docs.astral.sh/ruff/) linting and formatting, `__init__.py` import sort order, and auto-mapping consistency.

> `make typing` performs type checking with [ty](https://docs.astral.sh/ty/) and validates TRansFormers (TRF) rules, which cover config class naming conventions and `forward()` signatures. Type errors and TRF violations report a specific rule number and must be fixed manually. The rules live in the [mlinter](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers-mlinter) repository. Run `python -m utils.mlinter --list-rules` to see every TRF rule, or `python -m utils.mlinter --rule TRFXXX` to view the full documentation for a specific rule.

Reviewer: Imo, would be nice to mention that we have a local overwrite native in the transormers repo to control specific rules if they need exceptions + the specific comment skips on a line cc @tarekziade
